# SNHU_CS340_Client_Server_Development

#How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The way I write programs that are maintainable is by adhering to the "separation of concerns" principle by segmenting the code/modules into sections that serve a particular purpose in the application. This reduces confusion when updating and/or expanding the application in the future by myself or other developers. Without adhering to the “separation of concerns” principle when developing an application, future maintenance of the application becomes a much more difficult process and introduces a larger possibility of application wide error(s).

Writing code that is readable is arguably just as important as writing code that is functional because if the code is unreadable, maintaining the code becomes a much more difficult task and has a high probability of hard-to-find errors and increasing the time to update/maintain the application. The way I write code that is readable is by following best-practices in regard to indentation and spacing, as well as short but concise in-line commenting so that referencing the code in the future allows for a clear understanding as to the purpose of the code and its purpose.

Creating adaptable programs can be done in a variety of ways, but the way in which I approach developing adaptable programs is by adhering to Object-Oriented Programming principles. While there may be applications that do not require the use of Object-Oriented Programming, the same methodology can be applied to create adaptable programs by writing reusable scripts/modules/packages that can be used in other applications in the future.
I tend to follow writing my applications with an Object-Oriented Programming approach in every instance that benefits from that approach. In the case of this application with the CRUD.py module I created, I have written the CRUD class in a way that it can be easily adopted into any application requiring MongoDB CRUD functionality with minimal changes to six initialization variables.

#How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
The way in which I approach a problem is by dissecting the initial problem into smaller “sub” problems that can be worked on individually. This process has worked for as it follows the methodology of “chunking” a complex problem into smaller problems that are easier to address. As I work on these smaller “chunks” of the original, larger and more complex problem, the process to finding an optimal solution becomes clearer as the individual pieces merge back together.

The completion of this application is a good example of chunking a larger problem into smaller pieces to streamline the path to a solution. Instead of approaching the application as a whole, the induvial components were completed individually and brought together to produce a solution to the larger and more complex “whole” that made up the applications purpose. The larger problem was to create a Client/Server application that allowed a user(client) to interface with a UI to interact with a database(server) with data provided by a third-party. I broke this application down into three smaller pieces and utilized the MVC architecture which included, creating the database(Model), writing the CRUD class(Controller), and designing the UI(View). As these pieces were completed individually, they came together to create a fully functional application that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable. 

The way in which I will create databases in the future to meet client requests is to follow the SDLC process of planning, design, implementation, testing, deployment, and maintenance. This process allows me to ensure I create applications/databases that are tailored to the needs of the client and produces a healthy habit of listening to the client’s needs to create applications that solve their problem.

#What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists solve complex problems with the aide of logic and reasoning, computation, mathematics, data, and software engineering. The work computer scientists do rises significantly in value as humanity grows closer to technology and depends on it for both everyday needs and technological growth. As we continue to advance technologically, the need for accessing and manipulating data, along with computation that is faster, cheaper, and reduces memory/storage requirements, will undoubtedly be solved by computer scientists at present and in the future.

The work I have completed in this project would help companies/individuals with their work by reducing the complexity of interacting with large datasets. Data has become one of the most valuable resources in modern times, especially for companies, and everyday the data pools grow larger and larger making it increasingly difficult and complex to utilize. The skills and knowledge I have gained creating this application can be applied in the future to help companies/individuals interface with data to meet their needs easier and with greater efficiency. 
